[Alerting V2][Serverless & 9.5][M2] Add experimental alerting features rules pages (#6523)
elastic/docs-content: explore-analyze/alerting/experimental-alerting-system/rules/create-rules-action-policies-agent-builder.md

:::

## Example prompts [ai-agent-sample-prompts]

Use these prompts as a starting point, then adjust them to your data and thresholds:

- Create an error threshold rule on the checkout service data. Alert when there are more than 3 HTTP 5xx errors in the past 5 minutes, grouped by URL path.
- Monitor average CPU usage across all hosts. Alert when any host exceeds 90% for more than 10 minutes.
- Alert when log volume from the payments service drops below 100 events in a 5-minute window. This likely means data has stopped flowing.
- Set up a rule that tracks error rate by service. Alert at medium severity when the rate exceeds 1%, and critical when it exceeds 5%.

## Set up notifications [ai-agent-notification-setup]

After a rule is saved, you can ask the agent to configure notifications. The rule management skill handles this by creating workflows and action policies.

- **Workflows** - Workflows are the delivery mechanism. They define what happens when the {{alerting-v2-system}} determines that a notification should be sent, such as posting to Slack, emailing a team, triggering PagerDuty, and so on.

> - **Action policies** - Action policies are the gating mechanism. They evaluates alert episodes from the rule on a continuous schedule and invokes the workflow when the episode clears the action policy's match conditions and frequency settings. When the agent creates an action policy alongside a specific rule, the action policy is automatically scoped to that rule.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- **Action policies** - Action policies are the gating mechanism. They evaluate alert episodes from the rule on a continuous schedule and invoke the workflow when the episode clears the action policy's match conditions and frequency settings. When the agent creates an action policy alongside a specific rule, the action policy is automatically scoped to that rule.
```

Author: Fixed in [`2df661b` (this PR)](https://github.com/elastic/docs-content/pull/6523/commits/2df661b3812c6c723845734818f2c374bb96d314).
